;
| Anology and God 

|| Bibliography
	- De Nominum Analogia, St. Thomas Cajetan
	- Divine Names, Ps. Dyionisius
		- St. Thomas' commentary 
| Whether God can properly be called a mind 
| Simplicity
|| Arguments in the affrimative 
	- compostional causal priniciples 
		- priority of parts to their whole

	- immutable perfection 
		% I. God's essence is most perfect as his essence is perfection. 
		  II. Any quality greater than God's perfection is a contradiction
		  III. Any quality as perfect to God's perfection can only be identical to His
		       essence, becuase if it were perfect God is already essentially so
		  IV. So any quality other than the divine essence is imperfect
		  V. God cannot posses anything that contradicts His essence, so He can have no
		     imperfection 
		  => God posses no quality distinct from His essence 
	
	- unlmitedness
		% I. God is unlimited
		  II. anything really other than God is limited
		  III. to have limited parts is to be limited
		  => God cannot have any quality other than his substance or composition at
		  all 

		~ III. Man is both material and immaterial, so two contrary qualites exist in
		  one substance so can limitation and unlimitation
		~ III. divinity can remain unlimited and yet united with limited parts as a man
		  can remain rational but united with irrational parts 

	
|| Objections 
	- real Trinitarian distinctions without composition
	- enetering composition in the incarnation  

	- From divine freedom
		% if God has the freedom to choose one way or another, he has a potency to to
		  act one way or another, therefore there is a composition of act and potency

	- many attribute problem

	- Eternality of the world 
		% if the act of providence is eternal then creation must be eternal,
	     but it is not, as is said 'in the beginning God created the heavens
	     and the earths', so God is composed of an agent and act
		~ God's act of providence is eternal but their effects are temporal	

	- argument from beauty 
		% beauty is consequent of composition and God is beautiful so God must be
		  composed
		~ only in material things is beauty from proper comoposition. a creature is
		  greater with greater composition because it must gain through composition
		  what it does not have essentially, but God is essentially beautiful
	
	- changing relations in creating
		% God is at once not creator and then is, he is at once able to create the
		  world and then can't posterior to its existence already attaining
		~ this lacks a fundumental distinction, that is, between God and God's effects.
	     While creation changes from and to existence, God is static in his 
		  providential act. Similarly the second objection confuses a change in the 
		  power to create and the allowing conditions changing. 

	- temporal location from temporal knowledge
		% there exists a class of propostional knowledge of what is true *now*, that is
	     in the current moment, for example the statment 'the sun is shining now.' If
	     these propisitions considered exist and God knows all, He must be in time to
	     know these 
		~ this a dumb objection lul 
		~ an obvious parralel is spatial knowledge, that is the
	     knowledge 'the tree is to my left' or first person predications like 'I am
	     material.' For God to fullfil this parrallel He must be matterially present
	     everywhere, but this is absurd so this objection mus fail. the knowledge
	     considered in this objection is the subjective experience of objective 
		  knowledge. God does know all occurence and their exact temporal location, 
		  but God knows reality not through experience but by causation, thereofore God
		  nows the same propositions without temporal constrains. 

	- simplicity and knowledge
	- simplicity and Augustinian realism

	- Modal collapse from knowledge
	- Modal collapse from intrinisic act
	- Modal collapse from omnibenevolence 
	- Modal collapse from alone world argument

	- If God is existence, and things are composite of existence and essence, then God
	  must enter into composition

| trash bin
	- eternality and temporality of change
		%  I. An action is either eternal or not said of God because in God there is no
		 	succesion of moments. 
			II. Any change requires a giving and recieving of being.
			III. if a quality recieves being prior to eternity it is a contradiction, 
			IV. if a quality is concurent with eternity it cannot depend on another 
			since to be really distnct and depend necesitates posteriority, but God
			is indpendent, so 
			eternal qualities must be identical with eachother 
			V.  if a quality recieves act posterior to eternity, TODO 
			=> In God there is no composition of qualities
