| Proofs for the filioque

	- define generation
		- eternal giving of existence, not creation as per the creed
		- eternal foot analogy of aristotle 
		- production = generation
		- spiration is the generation of the spirit, begoting is generating the son
	- define hypostasis and hypostatic property 
		- greek for person 
		- disputed definition but secondary to this definition
		- not like a cartesian person 
		- hypostatic properties are the properties that not all the Godhead has but only one
		  or two hypostatsis.	
			- for example taking on flesh or generating the son 
	- define principle 
		- the trinity act as one principle in creating, the sun is not 1/3 by the father and
		  another by the son and another by the spirit, rather fully of each, for they act 
		  as one principle
		- that the father and son are one principle else there would be mediation
		  and therefore a lack of intimacy between the father and spirit 
			- Gregory Palamas DEBOONKED
		- principle which, that which communicates; the father and son united
			- principle by which, the quality commicated; divinity
			- principle which is the the father and son as one


|| Differentiation of spiration and generation 
	- I. a thing can be indivuated according to either matter, essence, or origin
	  II. the whole trinity is immaterial and so each person cannot be induvuated by matter
	  III. Each member is consubstanial and so cannot be induvuated as so 
	  IV. so then each member is indivuated by origin 
	  V. for the son and spirit to be distinct they must differ in origin
	  VI. if both procced from the father alone they would have identical origin
	  VII. the son does not procced from the spirit
	  => the spirit must procced from the father and the son 

		~ VI, begoting and Spiration are distinct methods of production 
			+ this is immposible. to produce is to give being so the act involves two possibly
			  differentiable aspects: the giver or what is given. according to the greeks
			  the giver is identical, the father. so then what is given must be different; but 
			  what then is given ? what is given is divinity yet there is one divinity so what 
			  is given must be identical else the saying the creed's saying 'one divinity' is null.
			  so then to say that what is given and who give is identical yet produces non-identical
			  indiuvuals is impossible
			  	- Gegory Palamas DEBOONKED

|| the Son's title 'Image'
	-  I. the son is called image because of his perfect imitation 
		   of the father in all possible ways; thus the saying, 'the son
			has all the father has except for his paternity'
		II. the only way the son cannot imiate the father is the fathers
		    differentiating hypostatic property of paternity 
      III.  paternity is unbegotness and source of all other things
		IV. It is possible for the son to imiatate the father in producing 
		    the spirit without blending the person and he would a perfect image
			 if so
		=> the father and the son produce the spirit 

		~ III, if paternity is to be the cause of all other things, the son cannot cause the spirit
		  else the son would share the father's hypostatic property and colapse the father and son
		  into one person. 
			+ we must differentiate constiutative and non-constituative hypostatic properties, constituative
			  hypostatic properties are those that make a person distinct, for example the father's unbegotteness.
			  so then we must prove that non-constiutative properties can be shared. that more than one person
			  can share a hypostatic property is evident by the fact the son and  spirit are both generated 
			  yet not the father, so to be generated is a hypostatic property possesed by more than one. 
			  similarly, both father and son share the hypostatic property of spiration and the property 
			  of the father's constituative properties of unbeggotness differntiates the father from son 

|| the Sprit's title 'bond'
	- I. the spirit is called bond and the unity of the father and son 
	  II. the way in which he bonds the two is by perfectly recieving
	       their love so that the two are one in their love for the spirit, 
			 as is the saying  'is adored and glorified by the father and son' 
	  III. the spirit would more perfectly bond the two if the son was in a immideate relation with 
	  		 the spirit and spirated as one prinicple 'bonded' or 'united' with the father
	  => the father and son are united as one priniciple, both generating the spirit

	- TOREF, source from liturgy, prayer, and council

|| the spirit's title 'Holy spirit'

|| the most perfect intimacy of the trinity 
||| fittingness because of intimacy of the spirit
	- I.   the spirit is called the bond of the father and son
	  II.  it would be fitting for the spirit to be most intimate to the father and
	       son as possible 
	  III. the spirit would be more intimate to the two if directly caused by both 
	  IV.  it is most fitting and most possible that the father and son spirate the spirit 
	  =>   The spirit proceeds from the father and the son 
		
	 	~ III, if the latins are correct then the father must communicate divinity through the
		  mediation of the son and therefore be less intimate
		  + this misunderstance how the father and son create the spirit
||| fittingness because of intimacy of the son 
	- II.  it would be fitting for the son to be as intimate with the father as possible
	  III. the son would be more intimate to the father if they mutualy produce the spirit as
	  		 one principle
	  IV.  it is most fitting and most possible that the father and son spirate the spirit 
	  =>   The spirit proceeds from the father and the son 


|| From economic to eternal sending
||| Authority/sending and causation
	- work on to avoid suborinationism

	- I. The father has authority to send the son and the son has authoriy to send the spirit 
     II. the son is the image of the father and as so has all possible qualities the father has
	  III. the only qualities not shared is the total inasccibility of the father 
	  IV. therefore the father's authority over the son must be found in his causation of the son
	  V. the son has authority over the spirit 
	  VI. the son must spirate the son 
	  VII. the father spirates the son
	  => the spirit proccedes from the father and the son 
	
		~ does this entail subordinationism, the word a authority implies some superioirity with
		  is repugnate to the trinitarian relations 
		~ the spirit send the son and therefore has authority over him
			
| Whether generation and spiration contradict eternality
|| Whether the son and spirit can be eternal and yet generated
|| Whether the son and spirit can be most sublime and yet generated
| Whether generation and spiration is a free act
|| whether generation is neccesary
|| whether generation can be neccasary and free
	- free act must first be defined, if meant as
	  a contingent act then no, for generation and
	  and spiration are perfections of love and the 
	  father is by nature perfect love. But if by free
	  one means,'an uncoerced act of the will' then yes; the will 
	  and nature are really identical so much so that the 
	  will acompanies and approves all that is done by 
	  natural neccesity, so that the act of generation 
	  is eternally approved by the will.
		- 'Ut ominino similis et per modum naturae nihilomininus ut dilectus'
		  (St. Bonaventure, sentences 1.6.2), (Hayes, pg. 46) 
	  	?? does the will approve prior or posterior to the act
		of generation

| Whether divine relations contradict highest simplicity 

|| Overview
	- summary: the persons are distinguished by relative properties,
	  natural origin, which is not an addition to essence or a differnt quality
	  but is a mode of possesing their common, identical nature

	- four key concepts to be held in mind 
		- Divinity is fully and totally communicated in generation 
		- persons are only distinct in virtue origin			
		- the persons are identical to their origin
		- the persons are each really identical to divinity but not to eachother persons really

|| Objections 

	- a hypostatis is distinct from the essence 
|| Explination 
	- deboonk partialism 
		- in divine generation the whole essence is given so that the object of generation is 
		  consubstantial to the giver, of one essence and equal in all qualities 
	- 'One person is distinguished from another person in three ways: in origin alone, as in God;
		in quality alone, as in angels; or in both, as in humans.' 
		- what is extracted from this quote is the definition of origin, what is the quality that
		  all of angels have commonly and humans have plurally ? angels each have there own genus, so
		  form does not suffice. angels lack accidental qualites so this will not suffice. so what angels
		  have in common is that each recieves there  existence from a common source, God. 
		- in the trinity there is one essence & plural origins yet in angels plural essences & one origin.
		- 'As God knows through himself and is identical to his understanding so the
		  Father generates through Himself and is identical to His generation', (Mystery
		  of the Trinity, q. 3. a. 2 c. ) 
		- since everyone is consubstanial this concept applyed to God is thus: each person is fully God yet
		  one is fully God unbeggoten & beggeting, another is fully God beggoten & beggeting, & another is 
		  God merely beggoten. 
		- the reason hypostatic properties are not communicated is obvious. when the father communicates 
		  divinity he becomes the origin of his terminus the son, it would be plainly wrong to say the 
		  father begets an ubeggotten person, so the terminus has a seperate origin, begotness, to be 
		  as well as beggotness when the two as one spirates the spirit. 
	- physcological anology 
		% God is perfect thinker, so when he thinks of himself he has an 'mental' image
		  that perfectly immitates its reality. Since existence is a perfection really
		  in God, His image has existence. But how could this image be different from
		  its thinker? Wouldn't they agree in all qualities? They agree in all things
		  except relative properties, inascablity, beggotness, and spiratedness. the
		  only difference from the image and reality is that one in no way recieves
		  being and the other is eternally concieved of by the Father. Yet the image is
		  both consubstantial and distinct
		% TODO proccesion of the spirit and the divine Will
		~ How does this not imply an infite regress of persons 
			+ God's self-knowledge and His knowledge of His self-knowledge are
			  identical. God knows all by self reflection, by perfectly knowing being he
			  knows what is virtually contained in being via participation, so all
			  divine knowledge is derived from a singular act of knowing all. But for
			  God to know all things more than once is absurd, for the knower, that which is
			  known, are one; and the act would be simultanious with the previous action
			  according to eternity, precluding distinction by temporality
			- Answered by St. Bonaventure in Mystery of the Trinity q. 4 a. 2 r. 9
	
